1025Dex 1.2.10 — TM/HM and comparable wild move rules

TM/HM TEACHING
The 639 base species introduced after Gen3 use public PokeAPI machine-method
data across the main-series Gen1–9 games, restricted to moves taught by the
58 original FR/LG/Emerald TMs and HMs. This historical union restores older
HMs such as Fly, Cut, Surf, Strength, Flash, Rock Smash, Waterfall and Dive
even when later games stopped distributing a move under that machine number.
Egg, tutor and level-up methods are not mistaken for machine permissions.
Native Gen1–3 species retain the engine's original ROM machine bitfields.

Permissions are stored on the source registration record, normalized to the
engine's exact move IDs, and restored when an added species' teaching row is
replaced. They survive the loader's final merge and subsequent ROM reloads.
No option permits every species to learn every machine.

ORDINARY WILD MOVES
Species 1–386 use the original FR/LG or Emerald level-up schedule respectively.
Species 387–1025 use the latest main-series Gen4–9 version group with level-up
data for that species. Spin-offs, Let's Go and Legends-specific progressions
are excluded. Each species' selected version is recorded in gen3_moves.lua.

Only attacks implemented by Gen3 (move IDs 1–354) enter the wild move set.
For added species, unsupported modern attacks receive comparable Gen3 attacks
at the same learn level. Curated choices cover mechanics with no direct older
equivalent; remaining attacks are ranked by type, role, effect, power and
priority. The bundled native property table uses actual Gen3 power and PP,
rather than later buffs. Multi-hit power and risky recoil/charge/lock mechanics
are accounted for. New mechanics themselves are not implemented by renaming a
move: e.g. Struggle Bug becomes Silver Wind, Leafage becomes Vine Whip and
Shadow Sneak becomes Astonish. Unique modern effects are approximations.

Process eligible moves in source order, avoid duplicates, keep four slots,
and forget the oldest when a new one fits. Never pull a later scheduled attack
down to the wild's current level. Evolution-only level-zero entries count as
the species' initial moves, as before.

Every added wild species has at least THREE distinct usable moves. If eligible
moves provide fewer than three, fill only the missing slots from a weak,
type-oriented starter reserve. Newly added reserve attacks have Gen3 power
at most 50 and cannot be moves scheduled for a later level. The reserve is
used only while needed, never displacing an eligible move or filling to four.
All assigned moves have their normal positive Gen3 PP. Struggle is never used
as a learned move for added wilds. Blipbug starts with Silver Wind, Leech Life
and String Shot. Gen1–3 wild species do not receive this padding or conversion.

This is an intentional compatibility expansion over the modern vanilla
reference, which can give some species fewer than three starter moves. It is
separate from the existing player level-up compatibility replacements: those
and all already-owned Pokémon's moves are preserved.

Moves and PP are rebuilt after the final random/visible/DexNav species and
level are selected. Personality, shininess, held items and health are retained.
Trainer teams, scripted/tutorial battles, link battles and persistent roamers
are preserved. Existing caught Pokémon and legitimate player-taught moves
are not edited; this governs newly generated ordinary wild battles.

DEXNAV / WILDFOLLOWERS
1025DexNav 0.1.13 uses 1025Dex's vanillaWildMoves API for previews and disables
its bonus-TM roll while the API is active. Without it, standalone DexNav keeps
its original special-move behavior. WildFollowers needs no runtime update;
its exact-species battle handoff passes through the same final move check.
Existing DexNav 0.1.13 automatically reads the updated equivalents and padding;
no new DexNav or WildFollowers build is needed for this change.

STATS / MOVES OPTIONS
STATS was a display-only legacy switch for single Special versus split Special
presentation in Gen1 screens; it never changed combat stats. Gen3 already uses
Sp. Atk and Sp. Def and did not use that display switch.
MOVES was the Gen1/2 modern-learnset widening control (GEN-NATIVE versus ALL).
The modern move registration/widening path was explicitly skipped in Game3;
the old machine pipeline could nevertheless attempt unsupported legacy TMs.
Both inert controls are hidden in FR/LG/Emerald, and old saved ALL values no
longer invoke that legacy machine pipeline. Gen3 level-up compatibility stays
as before; proper native machine permissions are always enabled.

SOURCE / REPRODUCTION
https://github.com/PokeAPI/pokeapi/tree/master/data/v2/csv
Input CSV hashes, selected rules and audit counts are included in
dex/data/species/generated/gen3_moves_provenance.json. Rebuild with:
python tools/build_gen3_move_rules.py CSV_DIRECTORY OUTPUT_DIRECTORY
Use pokemon_moves.csv, moves.csv, machines.csv, version_groups.csv, pokemon.csv,
pokemon_types.csv, types.csv, move_meta.csv and move_meta_stat_changes.csv.
The builder also reads tools/data/gen3_move_properties.json. Provenance records
its upstream source/hash, every modern-to-Gen3 replacement, and starter padding.

Automated tests use production gen1recomp registry/teaching/capture code and
the real DexNav resolver/generator. Every added machine permission and every
base species at levels 1–100 is checked for FR/LG and Emerald, including the
three-move minimum, distinct move IDs, real positive PP, source learn levels,
no future padding, and identical DexNav previews. Native schedules and machine
data are compared with 1.2.9. An interactive game playthrough has not been run.
